High level view of questions to address and how we create a model to do this

QUESTIONS:
General:
1. How do dopamine and acetylcholine contribute to learning and synaptic plasticity in the striatum.
2. How do Da and ACh contribute to or control activation of memory kinases?

Some of the questions are addressed with modeling, and some of them should be addressed (or confimed) with experiments.
More Specific:
1. How do Da and ACh via the M4, D1 and M1 receptors influence activation of memory kinases?
2. Can post-synaptic signaling pathways, activated by calcium, D1, M1 and M4, discriminate temporal patterns?
3. Which of these signaling molecules/receptor convey spatial specificity?
4. How can dopamine reinforce only those glutamate inputs that came prior, and not after?
	Is AC1 the only mechanism to provide temporal specificity?
5. Does the location of the D1/M4/Golf/Gi/AC complex, i.e. spine versus dendrite, change activation of kinases?
6. Does 10.5 Hz theta optimize some post-synaptic signaling pathways?

7. Are both mGluR and M1 required for 20 Hz LTD?  Lerner and Kreitzer show mGluR and PLC required.

8. Is CaMKII required for Theta burst LTP, to inhibit ECB production?
EXPER: add inhibitor peptide (10.5 Theta, DM)

EXPER: Is CB1 required for Theta burst LTP (first check that AM251 blocks 20 Hz LTD)?
After showing that AM251 blocks 20 Hz LTD DM, then do expers on Theta LTP DM.

Is CB1 required for striatal dependent learning (what about PKA, PKC and CaMKII)?
EXPER: In vivo infusion of drugs into striatum during behavioral task acquisition

SIMULATIONS to answer question:
Q1: Does theta have higher memory kinases (PKA+PKC) than 20 Hz?
1. Stimulate using theta rhythym, stimulate using 20 Hz, quantify PKA and PKC
Q2: What happens if caMKII or PKA is blocked? - compare to new and old field experiments
2. Stimulate with kcat of PKA =0, or kcat of CamKII = 0
Q3: What happens if DaR, m1R or mGluR5 are blocked? - compare to old (LTP) and new (LTD) field experiments
3. Stimulate, but with no Da, or no glu, or no ACh.
Q4: What sort of spatial specificity do we get?
4. Stimulate 1 spine, look at value at other spine
Q5: Does model exhibit similar sensitivity to theta frequency?

Model Development and Simulation Steps

Step 1. Merge reactions from modified version of Rodrigo's model and BoHung's model*

A. DONE. Merge reactions. Notes in the RXN file indicate whether the reaction came from the Gs model (Oliveira 2012) or Gq model (Kim 2013)
B. DONE. Use the smaller, 1 spine morphology
C. DONE. Create initial IC file - BALANCE ALL SPECIES, concentration and total PKA, etc in dend sm and spine head
Compare rate constants with xpp model and Oliveira model: which rates match references theirin, which ones do not match references, which rates don't have references.
D. DONE. Search for updated references for rates with none or non-matching refs.  
E. DONE. Check thermodynamic balance of some sets of reactions.
F. DONE. Create spreadsheet with rates and references to rates

Step 2. Assays and adjustment to achieve correct basal cAMP and calcium*

A. DONE. assays for PLC, Da binding to DR1 (very small subset of reactions) - PLCassay/, DRGassay/
B. DONE. IC and RXN for Gs production and binding (very small subset of reactions) - cAMPassay/
C. DONE. IC and RXN for calmodulin, calbindin, pumps, affinity of Ca for Dagl and PLC - whole model but 3-5 comps (dend with sm)
D. DONE. assays of DARPP32 phos in response to bath applied Da and Ca, as in Lindskog. -  whole model but 3-5 comps (dend with sm)
E. DONE. Include Gi reactions here to help decrease basal cAMP - simulate ss in whole, multi-comp model (witih spine)

*Step 3. Interaction between Gs and Gq/calcium pathways

A. DONE. CaMKII inhibition of Dagl
B. POSTPONE. Replace the D2R parameters with m4R parameters in the D1R model. Higher affinity of m4R and higher ACh will decrease basal cAMP, may need to add AC1 or otherwise tweak params to fix basal cAMP and Dp34PP1.
C. POSTPONE. PKA enhances of Gq or Gi GAP activity?  Via RGS?  Speed GaGTP production according to Chuhma et al.?
D. DONE. Add in Epac (from Chay et al.) or AKAR (from Nair ... Kotaleski) to quantify assays
E. DONE. Re-run all assays to verify, including Uchigashima bath application simulations - still valid?

Step 4.  Simulation experiments: 20 Hz vs theta

A. DONE. Stim files: Glu: how to account for release refractoriness and receptor desensitization (Ca and mGluR)? calcium constrained by Asia calcium dynamics model.  Still need to contrain calcium by Armando imaging.
B. DONE. Stim files: Da and ACh: what pattern of release occurs (Da constrained by voltammetry)
C. DONE. Which temporal patterns select for LTP vs LTD? - repetition of 20hz vs theta
D. Sensitivity to order of Ca and Da?  Create alternative stimulation files
E. DONE. Effect of blocking various molecules, such as PDEs or CamKII
F. IN PROGRESS. Create signature that can correctly predict LTP vs LTD for block cases also.  Then create novel stim patterns.
G. DONE.  Spatial specificity
H. IN PROGRESS. Effect of alcohol.  IC: lower G proteins; Stim: higher calcium (NR2B), possible more Glu (less desensitization), less Da; smaller effect of 2ag on signature (less CB1).

Step 5. Parameter sensitivity analysis
Simulations using different molecule quantities/distributions, different diffusion constants, etc. are in the subdirectory robustness

